docs/base-chain/quickstart/builder-codes.mdx, before:

---
title: "Builder Codes (coming soon)" 
sidebarTitle: "Builder Codes"
description: "Integrate Builder Codes to attribute onchain activity to your app or wallet."
---

<Warning>
Base Builder Codes are still not fully live yet. Base will issue Builder Codes out of Base.dev **soon**. These docs are released ahead of launch to allow builders time to understand the implementation.
</Warning>

Builder Codes allow you to attribute onchain activity to your app or wallet, unlocking analytics, rewards, and future incentives. This guide covers the implementation steps for both application developers and wallet providers.

## For App Developers

Integrating Builder Codes requires appending a suffix—provided by Base—to your transaction data.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Get your Builder Code">
    When you register on **base.dev**, you will receive a **Builder Code**. This is a random string (e.g., `k3p9da`) that you will use to generate your attribution suffix.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Append the Suffix to Transactions">
    The recommended way to attach your suffix is using `wallet_sendCalls` (ERC-5792). This passes the suffix through a capability, allowing the wallet to handle the attachment automatically for both EOA and Smart Account (ERC-4337) users.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Wagmi (Recommended)">
        Use the `useSendCalls` hook from Wagmi's features to pass the `dataSuffix` capability.

        ```typescript lines highlight={14-16}
        import { useSendCalls } from 'wagmi'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        function SendTx() {
          const { sendCalls } = useSendCalls()

          async function submit() {
            await sendCalls({
              calls: [
                {
                  to: "0xYourContract",
                  data: "0xYourCalldata"
                }
              ],
              capabilities: {
                dataSuffix: dataSuffix
              }
            })
          }

          return <button onClick={submit}>Send</button>
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Viem">
        If you are using Viem directly, pass the `dataSuffix` in the `capabilities` object.

        ```typescript lines highlight={11-13}
        import { walletClient } from './client'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        await walletClient.sendCalls({
          calls: [
            {
              to: "0xYourContract",
              data: "0xYourCalldata"
            }
          ],
          capabilities: {
            dataSuffix: dataSuffix
          }
        })
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Legacy (writeContract)">
        If you are restricted to `writeContract` (EOA only), you must manually append the suffix to the calldata. This is **not recommended** as it does not support Smart Accounts automatically.

        ```typescript lines highlight={15}
        import { encodeFunctionData } from 'viem'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        // 1. Encode your function call
        const encoded = encodeFunctionData({
          abi,
          functionName: "yourFn",
          args: [a, b, c],
        })

        // 2. Manually append the suffix (stripping the '0x' prefix from the suffix)
        const dataWithSuffix = encoded + dataSuffix.slice(2)

        // 3. Send the transaction
        await sendTransaction({
          to: "0xYourContract",
          data: dataWithSuffix,
        })
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
</Steps>

Once you have added the suffix, your app is fully ERC-8021 compliant.

---

## For Wallet Developers

Wallet providers need to support the `dataSuffix` capability to enable attribution. This involves accepting the capability and appending the suffix to the calldata before signing.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Support the dataSuffix Capability">
    Your wallet should accept a `dataSuffix` string in the `capabilities` object of `wallet_sendCalls`.

    ```typescript lines
    interface DataSuffixCapability {
      dataSuffix: string; // hex-encoded bytes provided by the app
    }
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Append Suffix to Calldata">
    When constructing the transaction or User Operation, extract the `dataSuffix` and append it to the calldata.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="EOA Transactions">
        Append to `tx.data`.

        ```typescript lines
        // Minimal example for EOA
        function applySuffixToEOA(tx, capabilities) {
          const suffix = capabilities.find(c => c.dataSuffix)?.dataSuffix
          if (!suffix) return tx

          return {
            ...tx,
            // Append suffix bytes (remove 0x prefix from suffix if tx.data has it)
            data: tx.data + suffix.slice(2) 
          }
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="ERC-4337 User Operations">
        Append to `userOp.callData` (not the transaction-level calldata).

        ```typescript lines
        // Minimal example for ERC-4337
        function applySuffixToUserOp(userOp, capabilities) {
          const suffix = capabilities.find(c => c.dataSuffix)?.dataSuffix
          if (!suffix) return userOp

          return {
            ...userOp,
            // Append suffix bytes to the UserOp callData
            callData: userOp.callData + suffix.slice(2)
          }
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
  <Step title="(Optional) Add Wallet Attribution">
    Wallets may also include their own attribution code (their own ERC-8021 suffix) by simply prepending the wallet’s own suffix before the app’s.

    *   **No interaction required with apps:** The wallet handles this independently.
    *   **Multi-code support:** ERC-8021 natively supports multiple attribution codes.

    **Example:**

    ```typescript
    finalSuffix = walletSuffix + appSuffix
    ```

    This ensures both the app and the wallet receive onchain attribution.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## For Base-Solana Bridge Developers

<Warning>
Onchain Builder codes are currently still not live on mainnet.
</Warning>

Builder codes work with the [Base-Solana bridge](/base-chain/quickstart/base-solana-bridge) via the `hookData` mechanism. Currently available for **Solana → Base** flows only.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Get your Builder Code">
    When you register on base.dev, you will receive a Builder Code. This is a random string (e.g., k3p9da) that you will use to generate your attribution suffix.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Build hookData">
    ABI-encode the user address, your code, and fee:

    ```solidity
    bytes memory hookData = abi.encode(
      0xUSER,           // destination address on Base (NOT the Twin)
      0xBUILDER_CODE,   // your bytes32 code
      100               // feeBps (100 = 1%)
    );
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Attach to Bridge Message">
    Set `to = BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS` and attach a call to `Flywheel.send`.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Simple Bridge">
        For a bridge with no follow-up call:

        ```
        to:     <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>
        amount: 100
        call:
          ty:    Call
          to:    <FLYWHEEL_ADDRESS>
          value: 0
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(
                   Flywheel.send.selector,
                   <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>,
                   <wSOL_ADDRESS>,
                   hookData
                 )
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Bridge + Follow-Up Call">
        To chain additional calls, use `DelegateCall` with `Multicall`:

        ```solidity
        Call[] memory calls = new Call[](2);

        // 1) Flywheel attribution (must be first)
        calls[0] = Call({
          to:    <FLYWHEEL_ADDRESS>,
          value: 0,
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(
                   Flywheel.send.selector,
                   <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>,
                   <wSOL_ADDRESS>, // 0x311935Cd80B76769bF2ecC9D8Ab7635b2139cf82 on Base Mainnet
                   hookData
                 )
        });

        // 2) Your follow-up call
        calls[1] = Call({
          to:    <YOUR_CONTRACT>,
          value: 0,
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(YourContract.yourFunction.selector)
        });
        ```

        Then set the bridge call to:

        ```
        call:
          ty:    DelegateCall
          to:    <MULTICALL_ADDRESS> // 0xcA11bde05977b3631167028862bE2a173976CA11 on Base Mainnet
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(Multicall.multicall.selector, calls)
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Give feedback!

<Note>
We're constantly working to improve the Builder Codes experience. If you have any feedback, please let us know  [here](https://t.co/zwvtmXXzGz).
</Note>

Commit message:

added call out for mini app devs: (#716)
* added call out for mini app devs:

* changed to be under title

docs/base-chain/quickstart/builder-codes.mdx, after:

---
title: "Builder Codes (coming soon)" 
sidebarTitle: "Builder Codes"
description: "Integrate Builder Codes to attribute onchain activity to your app or wallet."
---

<Warning>
Base Builder Codes are still not fully live yet. Base will issue Builder Codes out of Base.dev **soon**. These docs are released ahead of launch to allow builders time to understand the implementation.
</Warning>

Builder Codes allow you to attribute onchain activity to your app or wallet, unlocking analytics, rewards, and future incentives. This guide covers the implementation steps for both application developers and wallet providers.



## For App Developers

<Note>
Mini Apps in the Base app will have their builder codes auto-appended to their transactions. 
Be sure to [register for Base.dev](https://base.dev/)
</Note>

Integrating Builder Codes requires appending a suffix—provided by Base—to your transaction data.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Get your Builder Code">
    When you register on **base.dev**, you will receive a **Builder Code**. This is a random string (e.g., `k3p9da`) that you will use to generate your attribution suffix.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Append the Suffix to Transactions">
    The recommended way to attach your suffix is using `wallet_sendCalls` (ERC-5792). This passes the suffix through a capability, allowing the wallet to handle the attachment automatically for both EOA and Smart Account (ERC-4337) users.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Wagmi (Recommended)">
        Use the `useSendCalls` hook from Wagmi's features to pass the `dataSuffix` capability.

        ```typescript lines highlight={14-16}
        import { useSendCalls } from 'wagmi'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        function SendTx() {
          const { sendCalls } = useSendCalls()

          async function submit() {
            await sendCalls({
              calls: [
                {
                  to: "0xYourContract",
                  data: "0xYourCalldata"
                }
              ],
              capabilities: {
                dataSuffix: dataSuffix
              }
            })
          }

          return <button onClick={submit}>Send</button>
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Viem">
        If you are using Viem directly, pass the `dataSuffix` in the `capabilities` object.

        ```typescript lines highlight={11-13}
        import { walletClient } from './client'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        await walletClient.sendCalls({
          calls: [
            {
              to: "0xYourContract",
              data: "0xYourCalldata"
            }
          ],
          capabilities: {
            dataSuffix: dataSuffix
          }
        })
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Legacy (writeContract)">
        If you are restricted to `writeContract` (EOA only), you must manually append the suffix to the calldata. This is **not recommended** as it does not support Smart Accounts automatically.

        ```typescript lines highlight={15}
        import { encodeFunctionData } from 'viem'
        import { Attribution } from 'ox/erc8021'
        
        // Your builder code provided by base.dev
        const builderCode = "abcd1234" 
        const dataSuffix = Attribution.toDataSuffix({
            codes: [builderCode]
        })

        // 1. Encode your function call
        const encoded = encodeFunctionData({
          abi,
          functionName: "yourFn",
          args: [a, b, c],
        })

        // 2. Manually append the suffix (stripping the '0x' prefix from the suffix)
        const dataWithSuffix = encoded + dataSuffix.slice(2)

        // 3. Send the transaction
        await sendTransaction({
          to: "0xYourContract",
          data: dataWithSuffix,
        })
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
</Steps>

Once you have added the suffix, your app is fully ERC-8021 compliant.

---

## For Wallet Developers

Wallet providers need to support the `dataSuffix` capability to enable attribution. This involves accepting the capability and appending the suffix to the calldata before signing.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Support the dataSuffix Capability">
    Your wallet should accept a `dataSuffix` string in the `capabilities` object of `wallet_sendCalls`.

    ```typescript lines
    interface DataSuffixCapability {
      dataSuffix: string; // hex-encoded bytes provided by the app
    }
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Append Suffix to Calldata">
    When constructing the transaction or User Operation, extract the `dataSuffix` and append it to the calldata.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="EOA Transactions">
        Append to `tx.data`.

        ```typescript lines
        // Minimal example for EOA
        function applySuffixToEOA(tx, capabilities) {
          const suffix = capabilities.find(c => c.dataSuffix)?.dataSuffix
          if (!suffix) return tx

          return {
            ...tx,
            // Append suffix bytes (remove 0x prefix from suffix if tx.data has it)
            data: tx.data + suffix.slice(2) 
          }
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="ERC-4337 User Operations">
        Append to `userOp.callData` (not the transaction-level calldata).

        ```typescript lines
        // Minimal example for ERC-4337
        function applySuffixToUserOp(userOp, capabilities) {
          const suffix = capabilities.find(c => c.dataSuffix)?.dataSuffix
          if (!suffix) return userOp

          return {
            ...userOp,
            // Append suffix bytes to the UserOp callData
            callData: userOp.callData + suffix.slice(2)
          }
        }
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
  <Step title="(Optional) Add Wallet Attribution">
    Wallets may also include their own attribution code (their own ERC-8021 suffix) by simply prepending the wallet’s own suffix before the app’s.

    *   **No interaction required with apps:** The wallet handles this independently.
    *   **Multi-code support:** ERC-8021 natively supports multiple attribution codes.

    **Example:**

    ```typescript
    finalSuffix = walletSuffix + appSuffix
    ```

    This ensures both the app and the wallet receive onchain attribution.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## For Base-Solana Bridge Developers

<Warning>
Onchain Builder codes are currently still not live on mainnet.
</Warning>

Builder codes work with the [Base-Solana bridge](/base-chain/quickstart/base-solana-bridge) via the `hookData` mechanism. Currently available for **Solana → Base** flows only.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Get your Builder Code">
    When you register on base.dev, you will receive a Builder Code. This is a random string (e.g., k3p9da) that you will use to generate your attribution suffix.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Build hookData">
    ABI-encode the user address, your code, and fee:

    ```solidity
    bytes memory hookData = abi.encode(
      0xUSER,           // destination address on Base (NOT the Twin)
      0xBUILDER_CODE,   // your bytes32 code
      100               // feeBps (100 = 1%)
    );
    ```
  </Step>

  <Step title="Attach to Bridge Message">
    Set `to = BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS` and attach a call to `Flywheel.send`.

    <Tabs>
      <Tab title="Simple Bridge">
        For a bridge with no follow-up call:

        ```
        to:     <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>
        amount: 100
        call:
          ty:    Call
          to:    <FLYWHEEL_ADDRESS>
          value: 0
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(
                   Flywheel.send.selector,
                   <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>,
                   <wSOL_ADDRESS>,
                   hookData
                 )
        ```
      </Tab>
      <Tab title="Bridge + Follow-Up Call">
        To chain additional calls, use `DelegateCall` with `Multicall`:

        ```solidity
        Call[] memory calls = new Call[](2);

        // 1) Flywheel attribution (must be first)
        calls[0] = Call({
          to:    <FLYWHEEL_ADDRESS>,
          value: 0,
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(
                   Flywheel.send.selector,
                   <BRIDGE_CAMPAIGN_ADDRESS>,
                   <wSOL_ADDRESS>, // 0x311935Cd80B76769bF2ecC9D8Ab7635b2139cf82 on Base Mainnet
                   hookData
                 )
        });

        // 2) Your follow-up call
        calls[1] = Call({
          to:    <YOUR_CONTRACT>,
          value: 0,
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(YourContract.yourFunction.selector)
        });
        ```

        Then set the bridge call to:

        ```
        call:
          ty:    DelegateCall
          to:    <MULTICALL_ADDRESS> // 0xcA11bde05977b3631167028862bE2a173976CA11 on Base Mainnet
          data:  abi.encodeWithSelector(Multicall.multicall.selector, calls)
        ```
      </Tab>
    </Tabs>
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Give feedback!

<Note>
We're constantly working to improve the Builder Codes experience. If you have any feedback, please let us know  [here](https://t.co/zwvtmXXzGz).
</Note>
